so today we're gonna talk about how to
get you to UCLA I'm here with Victoria
she likes fur on this
[Music]
hello I'm a UCLA freshman and I just
arrived today for the new Student
Orientation that's happening later this
week this is fresh in her mind and she
recently got accepted so obviously
you're doing something that work let's
break this down a little bit what do you
think are the key components that got
you into UCLA mmm extracurriculars great
slash test scores and making sure your
essays good so let's just start with the
easy stuff what were your grades like my
grades during high school work I would
say I like try to work hard I didn't I
didn't end with a 4.0 but I had like a
3.9 so I think that contra buted to it
but obviously I don't think it's not the
whole reason why I got in and then did
you take SAT it's like the a CT so yeah
what a CTS course do you think you need
to get into UCLA I don't think the test
scores matter as much like there's
usually arranged for UCLA I think it's
from like 32 like 34 is the average
range but honestly people can get in
with lower or higher scores so that just
depends on the rest of your application
right so for you to get into any of the
UC schools you had to do the UC
application that has four essays do they
change they change them sometime or like
I think from the past two years they
haven't changed them look they'll change
it once in a while
the prompts are the same though so you
said essays is actually a really
important part of your application so
what tips do you have for writing good
essays for the essays like people always
think they need to write about something
that's very meaningful like a mission
trip or something but honestly can be
some about something really small but as
long as it matters to you and it shows
how you're a unique person that deserves
to be in the school I think that's what
they look for like don't try to flex in
your essays
don't try to be fake in your essays cuz
they can I mean they can tell when
you're lying or trying to stretch it to
make yourself look really good so just
be yourself I guess so you don't think
you should stress your accomplishments I
think there's like different areas of
the application that allow you to do
that like your test scores or your
grades or transcripts and also they have
like a section where you can just talk
about like what you've actually
accomplished but like the essays are
more personal you know their personal
insight questions the people who look at
you read your essays like a look into
your personality and like your work
ethic and things like that so that's
interesting so extracurricular is a big
part of right because they see who you
are as a person and what kind of
extracurriculars did you do I did a lot
of volunteer for an aquarium that I
worked at in Seattle it was a like a
conservation Environmental Conservation
a program for a lot of high schoolers
and I think like in terms of
extracurriculars you want to make sure
that you continue something that you
enjoy for example I did something
related to biology because I knew I
wanted to go into this field I didn't do
like I didn't do like something that I
wasn't interested in that's it you think
the krayem got you in nah I also think
like I also had a job I consistently
worked with a lot of children cuz I
worked at an elementary school for the
past two years and I interned there for
like three years earlier and I guess
that shows like committing my ability to
commit to something and like as in also
my work ethic and dedication to a job so
it's good work experience but yeah
that's so so you start at the beginning
high school basically I started
interning and then I started working as
a staff member but yeah so like when did
you actually think about and
preparing for college probably like ends
of junior summer junior year summer so
like a little before I had to start
applying cuz I did procrastinate a
little and I did not apply that really
how did you plan out your
extracurricular sort was that something
you just was interested in doing I mean
yeah there was something I was
interested in doing and I guess in the
back of my mind throughout my high
school life I've always known like I
need to do certain things I need to
continue doing these extracurriculars to
make my application look better I guess
did you talk to any advisors or did you
get help from like friends and stuff I
had help from my parents they were the
most help I didn't get a college
counselor or anything because I don't
know why I didn't but my dad helped me
edit my essays a lot Wow are they good
I'm good enough to get you in here oh
yeah I don't know he edited my comment
out more than my other ones but he would
give me like advice on like what I
should put it and stuff like that yeah
so you think like getting someone else
to edit your essays like really crucial
right hmm I would say so because it's
like a different perspective reading
your words so if something doesn't make
sense they can tell you that and fix
simple mistakes or give you better ideas
on how to improve your essay that's so
true when you are applying like how many
schools did you apply to you probably
around like 12 I applied to a lot but
for like the UC application is just one
so it covers like three schools but yeah
I've watched a lot of schools though did
you get into any of the other UC schools
I got into UCSD and I only applied to UC
Berkeley which I got rejected from but
it's okay it's okay UCLA is better yeah
okay so in the end what made you choose
UCLA over all the other school you got
accepted into obviously I think that
overall UCLA is a great you know it has
a lot of things you can do like a lot of
courses a lot of extracurricular
opportunities and I feel like at the end
of it it leaves you in a better place
because I want to do pre-med in the
future and I think it's a great
preparation for that I have like a
pretty good medical program here right
yeah
number one in the California I saw on a
billboard
I saw a billboard another important
aspect of an application is your teacher
recommendations or your other adviser
act recommendations so I feel like
during high school you need to make good
connections with your teachers in order
for them to make a build a personal
connection with you and write you a good
recommendation letter because sometimes
the colleges really want to see how the
teacher looks at your a professor would
see you as like if you're a hard-working
person if you're dedicated what if
you're lazy and kind of slack off yeah
so you like talk to your teachers after
class and so sometimes I would but
mostly you just like participate in
class sometimes sometimes okay gotcha
just be on good terms with your teachers
basically then they know the students
are gonna ask them for recommendations
anyway what tips do you have for
studying for the AC T or the SAT
actually time yourself when you're
taking the tests because it actually
puts you in that space because when
you're actually taking the tests it
feels like a time crunch so you got to
get used to the timing the pacing and
also study things that are actually bad
at don't like study things where you get
like cuz this is princess and we good
scores on what did you do to practice
did you go to like an academy or did you
just do it by yourself I went to this
like sort of like a tutoring place for
like a CT and SAT and I think that was
really helpful because they kind of
forced me to consistently practice like
take tons of different practices and
time myself with that and I'd also have
like a teacher help me explain like what
I did wrong you know explain different
concepts I didn't know yet how many
practice tests do you think you did
maybe around like more than 10 probably
total okay I didn't really count so I'm
not sure and when did you start like
preparing you did you say the beginning
of junior year or it was that I think
maybe the summer before senior year oh
wait no sorry after sophomore year so
cuz I took that a CT at the end of
junior year took you like around like a
year half a year yeah okay
not bad
was it hard or was it just like a lot of
repetition a lot of repetition
definitely like something there was
definitely some concepts which I didn't
learn like in math there are some things
which I had to like actually learn but
after that it was just all practice like
repetition so if you want to increase
your chances of getting into these
schools you've got to check out today's
sponsor bullseye so there are a new web
app that helps you organize all of your
college applications but the most
important part is they can connect you
with advisors who are recent graduates
from top schools like UC Berkeley UCLA
MIT and Stanford so today we actually
got a really special offer if you're
applying to college soon click the link
in the description join bullseye comm
slash free session to claim your first
free 20 minute session with an advisor
you can ask them for some advice how to
frame yourself in your essays things
like that they will help you get into
these schools for free so click the link
in the description join bullseye comm
slash free session to claim your first
free 20 minute session with and advisers
and hopefully this can become your new
life yeah
subscribe to hafu and turn on
notifications what are you waiting for
it click that for more college advice ok
I'll see you guys next time peace
[Music]